Permission determine the ways different users can interact with a file or directory.
ls-l command is used to see the permission information of the file.

There are 3 types of permission :
                                1. r = read permission
                                2. w = write permission
                                3. x = execute permission
                                
structure :  
           - --- --- ---.
           1.First character is file type field. If the first character is - , this is a regular file
           If the first character is 'd' , it would be a directory.
           2.After first character next set of three charaterts indicates the user or owner of the file
           3.Middle set of three characters indicates the group of that file.
           4.Last set of three characters indicates the other.
           
           
suppose the output will be,
        drwxr--r--. 18 root root 1008 mar 27 2020 .linux.txt
        here, first character d means directory.
        The owner or user root have the permissin to rwx means read, write, and execute
        The group root have only r-- permission means only read.
        For others have r-- permission means only read.
        for read(4), write(2), execute(1)  Max number is 7
        if owner, group and others have all read(4), write(2) and Execute(1) permission then all have 7 i.e. 777
        
        
        
        
Changing file permission :
        chmod = (To change the mode)This command is used to change the permission of the file or directory
        eg. chmod 755
        means change the permission for owner as (4+2+1=7) ewx, for group as (4+0+1=5) r-x and fo others as (4+0+1=5) r-x
        i.e. drwxr-xr-x.
                
                
                
Changing file ownership :  
        chown = To change the ownership of the file or directories
        eg. sudo chown root hello.txt
        eg. sudo chown sakshi : students file.txt
        (Changing the user owner requries administrative access. A regular user cannot use this command to change the user owner of a file 
        even to give the ownership of one of the own files to another user. therefore we use sudo command ).
        
        
            
           
