Indtoduction -
               Linux file system is a built-in layer of a Linux operating system. It helps to handle the data management of the storage, to arrange the files on the disk storage,
	       and manage the file name, file size, creation date and so many other information about a file.
							 
	       The main difference between the windows and linux file system is to understand where the root of the file system begins. In Windows, the root begins at the drive letter, 
	       usually C:\, which basically means it begins at the hard drive. In linux however, the root of the filesystem does not correnpond with a physical device or location, It is a
	       logical location of simply "/".
               
          
Linux Directory Structure - 

   	       1. root 
	       		Every single file and directory start from root directory.
			Only root user has write privilege under this directory.
	       2. bin
	       		Contatins binary executables.
			Common linux commands you need to use in single-user modes are located under this directory.
			Commands used by all users of the system are located here.
	       3. sbin 
	       		Just like /bin, /sbin also contain binary executables.
			But the linux commands located under this directory are used typically by system administrator, for system maintenance purpose.
 	       4. etc
	       		Contains configuration files required by all programs.
			This also contains startup and shutdown shell scripts used to start/stop individual programs.
	       5. dev
	       		Contains device files.
			These include terminal devices, usb or any device attached to the system.
	       6. proc
	       		Contains information about system process.
			Contains information about running process and information about the process with that particular pid.
			This is a virtual filesystem with text information about system resources.
	       7. var
	       		Variable file
			Contains data that is changed when the system is running normally.
			It is specific for each system.
	       8. tmp
	       		Temporary file
			Directory that contains temporary files created by system and users.
			Files under this directory are deleted when system is rebooted.
	       9. usr
	       		User system resources
			Contains binaries, libraries, documentation, and source-code for second level program.
	       10. home
	       		Home directories for all users to store their personal files.
	       11. boot
	       		Contains boot loader related files.
			This directory holds files used in booting the operating system.
	       12. lib
	       		System libraries
			Contains library files that supports the binaries located under /bin and /sbin
	       13. opt
	       		Optional  
			Contains add-on application from individual vendors.
	       14. mnt
	       		Mount directory.
			Temporary mount directory where sysadmins can mount filesystem.
	       15. media
	       		Removable media devices
			Temporary mount directory for removable devices.
	       16. srv
	       		Service data
			Contains server specific services related data.
			
			
Bsic commands -
	       pwd = (printing working directory) To print where you are currently located within the filesystem.
	       ls = (list) This command lists information about directories and any type of files in the working directory.
	       ls-l = To print long listing format of files and directories.
	       ls-a = To see hidden files
	       ls-la = To get a full list of hidden files.
	       ls-r = Display the content of the subdirectories recursively. 
	       ls-i = To get Inode number of all directories and files.
	       cd = To change the directory or To go to a directory.
	       mkdir = To create a new directory or folder (empty directory).
	       rmdir = To delet directory (It can only be used to delet an empty directory).
	       rm = To delet or remove the files and directory.
	       cp = To copy files.
	       mv = To move files or To rename the files.
	       cat = To display the content of file.
	       touch = To create a file name.
	       echo = To move some data, usually text into a file.
	       man = To know more about a command and how to use it then use this man command.
	       ping = To check your connection to server.
	       head = To view the top n commands or lines.
	       tail = To view the last n commands or limes.
	       top = To display a list of running processes and how much CPU each process uses (like task manager).
	       uname = To print detailed information about lunix system like machine name, OS, kernel etc.
	       history = To review the commands you have entered before.
	       su = To switching the user.
	       sudo = This command allows a user to execute a command as another user without creating a new shell (password required).
	       vi = It is a text edditor to create & new file modify a file.
	       
	       
Links -
	Link is a pointer to a file. Creating links is a kind of shortcuts to access a file. 
	There are two types of links 1.Hard link and 2.Soft link
	ln command used to link files.
	
	Hard link :
		1.Hard links cannot be used on directories.
		2.These links points to the same link.
		3.These are having same i node number for the same file.
		4.We can not decide which one is true one.
	
	Soft link :
		1.Soft link also called as a symbolis link.
		2.These can link files on different file system.
		3.We can used on directories.
		4.We can easily decide the true one.
	       
	       
	      
			

	        
